README.md, before:

# Orthogonal CLI

CLI to access all APIs and agent skills on the Orthogonal platform.

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/orthogonal-sh/cli/main/demos/demo.gif)

## Installation

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g @orth/cli

# Or use npx
npx @orth/cli <command>
```

## Authentication

```bash
# Login with API key
orth login --key orth_live_your_key

# Or set environment variable
export ORTHOGONAL_API_KEY=orth_live_your_key

# Check auth status
orth whoami

# Logout
orth logout
```

## API Commands

### Search & Browse

```bash
# Search for APIs
orth api search "email finder"
orth api search "web scraping" --limit 20

# List all APIs
orth api list

# Show API endpoints
orth api show hunter

# Show endpoint details
orth api show hunter /v2/domain-search
```

### Call APIs

```bash
# GET request with query params
orth run hunter /v2/domain-search -q domain=stripe.com

# Multiple query params (two ways)
orth run searchapi /api/v1/search -q 'engine=amazon_search&q=wireless earbuds'
orth run searchapi /api/v1/search -q engine=amazon_search -q q=wireless earbuds

# POST request with body
orth run olostep /v1/scrapes -d '{"url": "https://stripe.com"}'

# Raw output for piping
orth run hunter /v2/domain-search -q domain=stripe.com --raw | jq '.emails'
```

### Generate Code

```bash
# TypeScript (default)
orth api code hunter /v2/domain-search

# Python
orth api code hunter /v2/domain-search --lang python

# cURL
orth api code hunter /v2/domain-search --lang curl
```

### Request an API

```bash
# Request an API to be added to the platform
orth api request https://docs.example.com/api -d "Weather data API"
```

## Skills Commands

### Browse & Search

```bash
# List verified & discoverable skills
orth skills list

# Search for skills
orth skills search "react best practices"

# Show skill details
orth skills show owner/skill-name
```

### Install Skills

```bash
# Install a skill to all supported agents
orth skills add owner/skill-name

# Install for a specific agent only
orth skills add owner/skill-name --agent cursor
```

Installs to 7 agent skill directories:

| Agent | Directory |
|-------|-----------|
| Cursor | `~/.cursor/skills/` |
| Claude Code | `~/.claude/skills/` |
| GitHub Copilot | `~/.github/skills/` |
| Windsurf | `~/.codeium/windsurf/skills/` |
| Codex | `~/.agents/skills/` |
| Gemini | `~/.gemini/skills/` |
| OpenClaw | `~/.openclaw/skills/` |

### Create & Publish Skills

```bash
# Initialize a new skill from template
orth skills init my-skill
orth skills init my-skill --bare  # SKILL.md only, no subdirectories

# Create a skill from a GitHub repo
orth skills create https://github.com/owner/repo
orth skills create owner/repo --path skills/my-skill --ref main

# Submit a local skill to the platform
orth skills submit ./my-skill
orth skills submit --name "My Skill" --tags "react,testing"

# Update local skill from platform (pull)
orth skills update owner/my-skill
orth skills update owner/my-skill ./local-dir --force

# Push local changes to platform
orth skills push owner/my-skill
orth skills push owner/my-skill ./local-dir

# Request verification (required before discoverability)
orth skills request-verification owner/my-skill

# Request a skill to be added (by description or GitHub URL)
orth skills request "A skill for React testing patterns"
orth skills request https://github.com/owner/cool-skill
```

### Verification Workflow

1. **Submit** your skill → it's on the platform but not publicly visible
2. **Request verification** → our team reviews it
3. **Once verified** → toggle discoverability on/off from your [dashboard](https://orthogonal.com/dashboard/skills)

## Account

```bash
# Check balance
orth balance

# View usage
orth usage --limit 20
```

## Shorthand Aliases

These top-level commands are aliases for their `orth api` counterparts:

```bash
orth search "query"          # → orth api search "query"
orth run slug /path          # → orth api run slug /path
orth code slug /path         # → orth api code slug /path
```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Watch mode
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm test

# Watch tests
npm run test:watch
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: install skills to project-local .agent/skills/ directory
orth skills add now also writes to .agent/skills/ in the current
directory (project-scoped), in addition to the global agent dirs.

When --agent is specified, the project-local install is skipped.

Updated README and added tests.

README.md, after:

# Orthogonal CLI

CLI to access all APIs and agent skills on the Orthogonal platform.

![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/orthogonal-sh/cli/main/demos/demo.gif)

## Installation

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g @orth/cli

# Or use npx
npx @orth/cli <command>
```

## Authentication

```bash
# Login with API key
orth login --key orth_live_your_key

# Or set environment variable
export ORTHOGONAL_API_KEY=orth_live_your_key

# Check auth status
orth whoami

# Logout
orth logout
```

## API Commands

### Search & Browse

```bash
# Search for APIs
orth api search "email finder"
orth api search "web scraping" --limit 20

# List all APIs
orth api list

# Show API endpoints
orth api show hunter

# Show endpoint details
orth api show hunter /v2/domain-search
```

### Call APIs

```bash
# GET request with query params
orth run hunter /v2/domain-search -q domain=stripe.com

# Multiple query params (two ways)
orth run searchapi /api/v1/search -q 'engine=amazon_search&q=wireless earbuds'
orth run searchapi /api/v1/search -q engine=amazon_search -q q=wireless earbuds

# POST request with body
orth run olostep /v1/scrapes -d '{"url": "https://stripe.com"}'

# Raw output for piping
orth run hunter /v2/domain-search -q domain=stripe.com --raw | jq '.emails'
```

### Generate Code

```bash
# TypeScript (default)
orth api code hunter /v2/domain-search

# Python
orth api code hunter /v2/domain-search --lang python

# cURL
orth api code hunter /v2/domain-search --lang curl
```

### Request an API

```bash
# Request an API to be added to the platform
orth api request https://docs.example.com/api -d "Weather data API"
```

## Skills Commands

### Browse & Search

```bash
# List verified & discoverable skills
orth skills list

# Search for skills
orth skills search "react best practices"

# Show skill details
orth skills show owner/skill-name
```

### Install Skills

```bash
# Install a skill to project + all supported agents
orth skills add owner/skill-name

# Install for a specific agent only (skips project-local install)
orth skills add owner/skill-name --agent cursor
```

Installs to the project-local `.agent/skills/` directory and 7 global agent skill directories:

| Location | Directory |
|----------|-----------|
| **Project** | `.agent/skills/` (current directory) |
| Cursor | `~/.cursor/skills/` |
| Claude Code | `~/.claude/skills/` |
| GitHub Copilot | `~/.github/skills/` |
| Windsurf | `~/.codeium/windsurf/skills/` |
| Codex | `~/.agents/skills/` |
| Gemini | `~/.gemini/skills/` |
| OpenClaw | `~/.openclaw/skills/` |

The `.agent/skills/` directory is project-scoped — commit it to your repo so everyone on the team gets the same skills. Global directories are user-scoped and apply across all projects.

### Create & Publish Skills

```bash
# Initialize a new skill from template
orth skills init my-skill
orth skills init my-skill --bare  # SKILL.md only, no subdirectories

# Create a skill from a GitHub repo
orth skills create https://github.com/owner/repo
orth skills create owner/repo --path skills/my-skill --ref main

# Submit a local skill to the platform
orth skills submit ./my-skill
orth skills submit --name "My Skill" --tags "react,testing"

# Update local skill from platform (pull)
orth skills update owner/my-skill
orth skills update owner/my-skill ./local-dir --force

# Push local changes to platform
orth skills push owner/my-skill
orth skills push owner/my-skill ./local-dir

# Request verification (required before discoverability)
orth skills request-verification owner/my-skill

# Request a skill to be added (by description or GitHub URL)
orth skills request "A skill for React testing patterns"
orth skills request https://github.com/owner/cool-skill
```

### Verification Workflow

1. **Submit** your skill → it's on the platform but not publicly visible
2. **Request verification** → our team reviews it
3. **Once verified** → toggle discoverability on/off from your [dashboard](https://orthogonal.com/dashboard/skills)

## Account

```bash
# Check balance
orth balance

# View usage
orth usage --limit 20
```

## Shorthand Aliases

These top-level commands are aliases for their `orth api` counterparts:

```bash
orth search "query"          # → orth api search "query"
orth run slug /path          # → orth api run slug /path
orth code slug /path         # → orth api code slug /path
```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Watch mode
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm test

# Watch tests
npm run test:watch
```

## License

MIT
